in this video we're going to talk about
independent writing and i'm going to
show you
how to write an essay toefl independent
writing
writing an essay in this video lesson
i'll give you a description of the
independent writing task
we'll see some sample essay questions
we'll learn
a super useful essay structure then
i'll show you exactly how to write an
introduction how to write body
paragraphs
and how to write the conclusion
so let's start with the basics what do
you have to do
in the independent writing task and
there are basically three
things you'll be asked either to give
your opinion
express a preference or describe or
explain something
now of these three options by far the
most common one
is the first one give your opinion you
always need to write a minimum
of 300 words in response to the prompt
and you have 30 minutes to do that
so let's have a look at some sample
questions and remember that there are
those
three possible categories the first one
the most common one is
give your opinion here's a typical
opinion prompt it says do you agree or
disagree with the following statement
a teacher's ability to relate well with
students is
more important than excellent knowledge
of the subject being taught
use specific reasons and examples to
support your opinion
now this final sentence here use
specific reasons and examples
you'll find that sentence at the end of
every question
in toefl independent writing
so obviously in here we've got an
opinion
a teacher's ability to relate well with
students is more important than
knowledge
and the question to you is do you agree
or disagree so classic
opinion prompt here here's another type
of question the preference question now
in this one
you'll be presented with two different
views or maybe three
and asked for your own opinion for
example some people prefer
being taught by a teacher who is an
expert in their field
so that's the first side the first view
others prefer a teacher with whom they
can relate
that's the second view and then the
question to you
which type of teacher do you prefer and
there's our sentence as always at the
end use specific reasons
and details to support your answer now
the third type of question
is to describe or explain i think back
to
high school this kind of question is
probably something you wrote when you
were in high school
here's an example perceptions of a good
teacher vary across cultures
now this type of question usually starts
with a kind of background statement
like that before getting into the
question
according to you what are some
characteristics
of a good teacher okay so that's the
question to you basically
describe a good teacher and use specific
reasons and details to support your
answer
so that's it there are three
possibilities opinion
preference or describe explain
now regardless of what type of question
you get
there's a structure that you can use in
all cases
and this is it every good essay needs at
least
four paragraphs starting with the
introduction
then two bodies and a conclusion
the introduction generally has three
parts a background sentence
the prompt but in different words and
a thesis statement that is what's your
opinion or
what's your essay going to talk about
and sometimes both of them together
when it comes to the body paragraphs
look at these first letters p
e e l keep that in your mind peel that
will help you to plan
good body paragraphs p is for point your
topic sentence your main idea
e is your explanation of that point the
other e
is the example or evidence and then l
is your link back to the topic so body
one body two
into the conclusion usually two parts
summarize the argument
summarize the reasons
this is a very standard essay convention
and you'll see this all the time when
you come to our live classes
let's see a sample prompt now
let's read do you agree or disagree with
the following statement so i've chosen
here
the most common question type opinion
question
do you agree or disagree with the
following statement a teacher's ability
to relate well with students is
more important than excellent knowledge
of the subject being taught
use specific reasons and examples
so of course we're going to follow our
structure
now before you start writing it's really
important to spend a couple of minutes
making a plan this will make sure that
you
think clearly about your ideas that you
link them to the topic
and that you are able to develop them if
you don't plan you run the risk of
writing
an incoherent repetitive mess
so to make your plan keep this structure
in mind
so here's the question again and let me
step you through
my plan so for the intro i've got my
background sentence
rewording the question and then my
thesis statement
so the background statement that i want
to make is that teachers
are influential figures in people's
lives
now rewording the prompt i'm looking up
here a teacher's ability to relate
is more important than excellent
knowledge of the subject
when i reword the prompt i'm going to
flip that around a little bit
and say some people think subject
knowledge is the most
important but in my thesis statement i'm
going to say i agree with the prompt
that a teacher's ability to relate with
students or the relationship they have
is more important than their knowledge
of the subject being taught
so the first point i want to make in my
body one
is that when a teacher has a good
relationship with a student it leads to
better performance
why because when we like someone so when
the student likes the teacher
they try to impress them for example we
may be more motivated
and will make more of an effort to do
well
linked back to the topic because
students don't want to disappoint their
teacher they
work harder and therefore perform better
so on to body two now and my second
point or my second reason
why the teacher-student relationship is
more important than teacher knowledge
so here i want to say that this
relationship means that students are
more open
to learning this is because the
teacher's job is not only to impart
academic material but also to provide
emotional support mental stimulation for
their students
for example when a student feels
comfortable with a teacher they can talk
about
anything and this supportive environment
can lead to
better learning finally my conclusion
i'll wrap it all up
a relatable teacher is better
for the two reasons that were mentioned
before
so the plan is quite simple you can do
it very quickly but it really helps you
to organize your ideas and make sure
that you're answering the question
exactly so let's have a look at the
introduction i'm going to show you my
example feel free to pause the video if
you want to have a go
yourself let's go through these three
steps i'm going to start with my
background sentence
besides our parents teachers are
arguably the most
influential figures guiding us through
our formative years
i'm going to reword the question here
this part some believe that excellent
subject knowledge is the most important
quality
in a teacher notice that i've twisted
the question the opposite way around
which is totally fine
then my thesis statement what do i think
in my opinion however it is a teacher's
ability to relate with his or her
students
that is most important and this essay
will explain
why it's a very clear opinion in the
introduction
from here we get onto body one our first
main point
let's go contrary to the belief that
teachers need to be experts in their
subjects
evidence shows that students actually
learn more
when they like their teacher
my explanation we want to impress
people we like so when a student likes a
teacher
they also want the teacher to like them
example for example studies have shown
that this is linked to
longer attention spans and to higher
levels of student motivation
so notice how that example really
supports my point
that a good relationship with a teacher
improves student performance
and then my link back to the topic so
having a teacher they like
means that students will put in the
effort to make sure that they don't
disappoint their teacher
and here's the full paragraph
we're on to body two the second point
second reason for my opinion here's my
main point
secondly students feel more comfortable
with the teacher they can relate to and
therefore
they will be more open to learning
explain a bit more further evidence for
this is that teachers are not just there
to impart academic knowledge but also to
support their students
mental and emotional development
for instance teachers who relate well to
their students will be more successful
in reaching their students on a deeper
level as
students will be more willing to
approach them if they have an academic
or personal problem now let's link back
to the topic
this supports the idea that the best
learning happens in a supportive
environment
therefore providing this is more
important than expert knowledge so at
the end there we really wrapped up the
main point
and made sure that we go back to the
question directly
here's the full body two
notice also that there are four parts to
the paragraph point explain example link
but there may be more than four
sentences so in this case
the explanation has actually two
sentences in the example
two sentences so you're not restricted
to just writing four sentences per
paragraph
on to the conclusion the final part now
just two sentences here is enough
summarize the argument in conclusion in
my view
when it comes to teachers knowledge
isn't everything
and then a little more detail summarize
the reasons
the most memorable teachers are those
who know how to really reach their
students
and are well liked and respected these
are the teachers who really make a
lasting impact
so here's the full essay and it would
score very well
because it deals with the question
directly has a great range of vocabulary
and grammar and it's logically organized
and connected if you're ready now to
practice on your
own make sure you come and join us on
e2language.com
once you log in go to the course
materials and to the
independent writing tasks section you
can also put your skills to the test by
taking our
mini toefl mock test here this will give
you a really good indication of what
your toefl score will be
plus you get writing feedback speaking
feedback
a score report with comments from the
teachers and you get to practice with
exam like tasks so now it's over to you
it's time to practice
go on with the activities after this
[Music]
lesson
you